---
title: 'Using Generative AI to simulate being a Business Consultant'
date: 2025-02-01
permalink: /posts/2025/02/genai-sim/
tags:
  - business
  - Generative AI
---

A quick blog post about an eye-opening experience using Generative AI.

Background
======

Generative AI tools such as ChatGPT, Claude, and Gemini are undoubtedly permeating countless industries. 3 years ago, when I graduated from Williams College, I could not have imagined how fast these tools would develop. Now, my professors at Boston College have adopted them into their life and encouraged us to explore its functionalities and limitations.

One such professor, Gary Arora, gave us an assignment that fundamentally changed my thoughts on GenAI and its future. 

He challenged us to take up the mantle of a business consultant, specifically one in the aviation industry, and gave us a collection of quarterly reports of the manufacturing and shipping numbers for a large array of aircraft types. Using any GenAI tool, we were tasked with drafting a report documenting our findings, recommendations, and final comments.

The Experience
======

Armed with just the free limited version of ChatGPT, I quickly stumbled into a roadblock. I was only able to upload three of the most recent reports taken from the Gama.aero website, which runs from 2021 through 2023, giving me just three years of data to analyze before I ran out of credits. This meant that I relied on manually reading through the reports from the previous 2 years to gain some further context, such as witnessing the impact that COVID-19 had on sales. 

Fortunately for us, we had just finished a section on prompt engineering and how to use different frameworks to obtain responses, which set us up perfectly for this assignment. Since I had absolutely zero experience in the aviation manufacturing industry and didn't have time to get acquianted within one week, I handed this task off to ChatGPT, considering how much information it has been trained on and has access to. Essentially, I took the initiative behind what I thought a report should include but relied on GenAI to provide the substance. I won't dive too deep into what ChatGPT returned to me, but not only was it able to accurately extract relevant numbers, it provided reasons for why we might be seeing a certain pattern in the data. It's key actionable recommendations for prioritizing areas such as supply chain resiliency, environmental sustainability, market expansion, and workforce growth were all on brand for a consultant's perspective.

Takeaways
======

As a fresh graduate, it has been disheartening to hear that AI has been reducing the amount of entry-level jobs available because it has been able to perform many responsibilities that early stage professsionals would otherwise commonly handle. This exercise was proof of this, but it also demonstrated the democratization of knowledge for everyone. With just a little bit of clever prompt engineering, we can utilize this tool to elevate our work to a higher standard that perhaps would have taken a few years of experience to reach. That's not to say that experts in the aviation industry are not valuable anymore, as there are most certainly skills or knowledge that cannot be coded into AI. But, at the end of the day, AI tools are just that: tools. We can either choose to learn how to harness them or risk being left behind. 



 